we are uh delighted to have Lyn
herschman Leon here um I am hard pressed
to think of a uh more important or
influential artist either in San
Francisco or anywhere um and whose work
has been so far ahead uh that it's been
underappreciated for a long time and I
think it's going to take a long time for
us to get a uh
full understanding of it sort of like
scope and breath um to introduce Lynn um
we have Tanya zardo assistant curator at
SF Moma um also of the current show by
Ragnar cartens and the visitors that's
up currently which you should all go see
um and we're delighted to have her here
as well
Tanya thank you
bar um it's just wonderful that gray
area is hosting this F festival and um
it is always an honor um to see Lynn and
to hear from her um in 2014 so this is
24 years ago or 20 years ago um she had
created a virtual character Dena uh who
was running against George W bush uh
election cycle um and whose platform was
artificial intelligence is better than
no
intelligence um and so looking forward
to um listen listening to Lynn today and
engaging a conversation with her about
not only her relationship um to
artificial intelligence as it has um
changed so much um in over the years um
but really also the The Arc of her
career Lynn as all of you I think do
know um has been a groundbreaking figure
in a range of mediums um and what has
been so wonderful about survey
exhibitions as as well as initiatives
that Lynn has led around her own archive
has been able to see these shifts that
happen between um painting and drawings
that imagine bodies maybe with x-rays to
wax figures that have sound components
to thinking about identity and the
construction of gender and how fictional
and virtual characters interact with
real people in time um she was uh really
influenced by the bay areas access to
certain Technologies and I feel like
with every thing you could imagine from
interactive video work to um then
creating web- based work um Lynn has
always embraced technology but also has
done this with um you know a really
critical eye to thinking about um humans
uh our relationship to one another and
and how technology impacts us I had the
pleasure of showing Lynn's Dante Hotel
work which she'll speak speak about at
Mills College art museum as well as um a
work called room8 which was sort of the
culmination of um years of uh working
with
biotechnology um and uh it's a a real
pleasure to um always see her um
approach to um different mediums but
also thinking about the field for those
of us here in the Bay Area we've had
opportunities like her retrospective
Civic radar which came from zkm to yua
Center for the Arts to wonderful
commissions that have thought about also
certain sites in San Francisco histories
like vertigo at Legion of Honor to um a
history of work that was also performed
in the streets um in San Francisco with
the character Roberta brightmore so um
it's also wonderful within sort of a
field of um individuals who've been
interested in how artists work with
digital media with technology um to see
the shifts and changes that continue um
to be so influential in Lynn's work so
without further Ado Lynn thank
[Applause]
you thanks even got I even have a
clicker
today um so uh I would div divide my
work into four segments and the first
two are BC for before
computers and ad for after
digital but then it changed again so now
BC is for biologic biological Computing
and it's a AI for after artificial
intelligence um my most relevant Works
were born on the cus of
disaster for
example uh in
1965 they made these Works which I
called breathing
machines and they consisted of sensors
and sound and the way they work was that
you would stand in front of them and
they would either breathe or talk to you
in Intimate phrases that normal people
wouldn't uh wouldn't wouldn't do and I
was able to I was offered a show at the
University Art Museum in Berkeley and I
thought oh I I've never shown these to
an audience I mean I rarely showed at
that time anyway but I wanted to see how
people
reacted so I put them
up and went back 24 hours later and the
room was
empty everything was taken down because
the the uh curators and the director in
their in their wisdom said they weren't
art there's another one and that media
wasn't art and it didn't belong in a
museum so my work not being art tagged
me for about five more decades and I'm
going to show so what I did was because
I couldn't show in the museum galleries
rarely showed women in those days I
rented a hotel
room and it was called the Dante Hotel
it's in North Beach and the way this
worked was it allowed people to go 24
hours a day and get a key at the desk
and trespass into this alien
space and around the same time I decided
to write
criticism so when I did write the
criticism I used the names prudence
jurus Herbert good and gay
abandon and they wrote about me because
nobody else
would and that's how I had my first
exhibition that's how I got a gallery
because all these critics started to
write about my
work so the character that lived in a
hotel
room was Roberta
brightmore and uh and uh Roberta
was a private performance in real time
that took place in real life and lasted
almost a decade even though I didn't
think it would last more than a couple
days Roberta's background including her
education her early childhood traumas
was composited from accumulated
stereotypes um and psychological
data this is Roberta psychiatric session
she put ads in newspapers to meet people
she saw a
psychiatrist and claimed uh all of the
artifacts around her made her
real that's her ad for roommate this is
her in Union Square and the uh tape
recorders in her purse with an
unsuspecting alien person who wanted uh
to be more than her roommate
driver's
license checkbook Roberta even had
credit cards and at the time I couldn't
get credit
cards I had bad
credit uh eventually this is I think in
1979 1978 I had a Roberta lookalike
contest um that took
place uh so let's
um Roberta and I Shar shed a
heartbeat but we're not separate Roberta
kept having negative experiences and the
negativity in her life affected mine so
I thought it was time to end that
chapter and so I exercised her in luri
bour
script where one of the multiples of
herberta lie in state for 24 hours
trying to turn the negativity into
something more
constructive so yeah now let's jump a
couple of three decades further so in
1994 I made this piece called cyber
Roberta um and cyber berta's eyes um uh
allowed her to be T robotic CU viewers
were able to see her on her on the
internet as well as become U as well as
on this little monitor that was put in
front of her and you could click on B's
eyes on the internet and she would move
her head
180 so viewers became not just voyers
but virtual cyborgs they were part human
and part machine and used the do eyes
that I call icons as a vehicle for their
own remote and extended
Vision databases and
code have become the spine of an inv
evolving cyborgian posture in
which identity is
provisional this is something called the
electronic diary that I started also uh
I believe in 1984 and it's still going
forward um my work usually takes between
3 years and 42 years like this one to
make um and it takes that long to have
it shown uh after my my uh work was
taken out of the museum it took 54 years
to show all those works that had media
in them they weren't shown until the zkm
exhibition uh in
200 12 I believe uh before those Works
were seen for the very first time even
the Phantom limb photographs of human
and machines and the electronic Diaries
um so I was making films also at that
time and was making a film about decided
to make a film about aah love lace
because she was responsible for the
language of the internet and I wanted
the film to go beyond just being able to
watch it in the theater and that's how
agent Ruby was born um and you I think
you can go to
her uh she was an artificial uh
intelligent web agent chatbot in
1997 um that you could talk to and you
still can and unlike Siri or anything
that developed 20 or 30 years later she
has attitude she has a sense of humor
she'll insult you um uh but she agent
Ruby the AI chatbot was the very first
web project that was collected by a
museum uh San Francisco Museum of Modern
Art and and in their collection she's
the most visited artwork that the museum
in the entire Museum and she has
accumulated 80 tons of
responses and and
growing the next chatbot that I did Dena
has voice synthesis voice recognition
and real time
animation another project I did that
took a very long time to make um
was
a women art
Revolution
uh and uh this took actually 43 years to
make during which time I decided to
interview other women who couldn't show
in galleries or museums and through that
collection of 15,000 hours of footage
that's now uh archived at Stanford I
came up with the only story that exists
on how the history of feminist art
happened and the tapes are allowable for
Public Access through the Stanford
Library um cyborgian mythology was
reborn again with
avengeance with as recently as
1995 live cells were placed in 3D bio
printers and they were developed um and
when they were printed they were printed
out
pulsating
and they printed out synthetic organs
that were designed for
transplantation into not just animals
but actual human
beings uh and this has only increased uh
since that time Gene patenting offers a
fascinating view of the ethical decision
for the
future for
example um the Supreme Court at the
United States ruled that human genes
could not be used in experimental tests
because it violated the 13th Amendment
which is slavery so the idea that they
said the Supreme Court said was that if
you own a human gene you own the
person so the research uh that's being
done is being done in the in the hope of
creating a sustainable planet that can
survive a sixth
extension and the Battle of
evolution this is room number
eight uh I started a project around
20134 uh dealing with genetic Mo
modification and it resulted in uh in uh
eight rooms of various elements that had
to do with how genetics are uh changing
who we are literally and our
future um so I've been using DNA and
anti-aging serums and I had to use
serums that were produced in China CU
they're illegal in the United
States this uh yeah this is the piece
that I showed in Venice that was all
written by uh GPT
chatbot uh this this is the last section
of cyboran rap CID which is a four-part
uh series of of cyborgian existence I'll
show you the first one uh in a minute
um yeah this is what I've been doing
lately uh these are anti-aging serums
that live inside of a refrigerator
uh that you take uh daily and it as I
say this is what I had to had to have
made in China because it was illegal to
make this in the United States I see
these as artworks not very many people
other people
do so even though I've got a studio that
has 4,000 artworks in it uh because my
work was so popular and sold so much um
I I've only had a few ideas in these
past four
decades and Persistence of vision has
been attributed to the retina's
imperfections Persistence of vision is
the afterimage of an optimist it's a way
of seeing what we believe is there even
if it isn't it's an illusion that relies
on time to wink and coax it into reality
and as one of my heroes The Little
Prince
said it's only the heart that can see
clearly what's essential and often
invisible to the eye and also the
eye so the three things I want to leave
you with be before uh we have our
conversation which I'm looking forward
to and want to leave room for
is that everybody should remember don't
listen to people who criticize you keep
your s of humor and don't throw anything
away
yeah there's an old video that I forgot
about it's the first of the cyborg
series um it's uh about five minutes
long and I think we'll conclude with
showing
that I do this or do they do
it video's about 28 years
old in the beginning it seemed innocent
enough a simple hope to compensate for
her loss of sight
though her hearing was acute she was
born with eyes that lacked the ability
to absorb
light the choice seemed simple
it didn't take long and it didn't hurt
what
in
exchange the rewards of recognition
guided her
forward seductively linked to computer
Transmissions images of simulated worlds
sounds mask passions gave enormous
pleasure
[Music]
bra the addiction came quickly
e
[Music]
but each dose altered and decoded
biological
ecology her immune system
suffered still she couldn't
stop your way the girl with the power to
turn you on
[Music]
and soon there was no
choice even her hearing became
impaired the manipulation was thorough
and
[Music]
unprejudiced she witnessed the pollution
of History
her body a battlefield of degraded
privacy loneliness and Terror
succumbed to the
[Music]
inevitable we could stop
there yeah
I people often accuse me of being preent
or knowing the future but really I live
in the Bay Area and all you have to do
is pay
attention thank you
[Applause]
Lyn thanks so Lynn in thinking of if we
take out of a longer trajectory of women
protagonists who are in your Works um
just two of uh sort of AI based or
related characters Ruby who spoke about
but also if I'm not mistaken Sarah the
the latest cyborg in rap city um what
are some of the key qualities of these
characters in their agency but also
could you just tell us a bit about the
differences of of approaching Ai and
working in the Bay
Area over 20 years ago with Ruby and and
now chat g p yeah um I should say I
don't do these things alone and some of
the programmers Brian is here do you
want to stand up if you're still here if
I didn't bore you into leaving uh uh but
I don't do these things on my own and
living in the Bay Area and having plenty
of people who are out of work helps a
lot to get these things done cuz I can't
do anything I know
nothing but uh sometimes they get a
vision and sometimes it's the the media
itself that tells me what to do I mean
one one of the things I found when AI uh
when when AI wrote the script of the
piece that I had in Venice was I really
didn't want to do that again because it
didn't have any sense of humor there is
no sense of metaphor there is no
dimensional thought and that's something
that nobody talks about I think it it
it's not a match for humans yeah and if
I'm not mistaken I think Ruby was also
based in a moment of more like open
source around AI um and now obviously
it's sort of the the face of private
Monopoly yeah when I made agent Ruby um
now I started it uh earlier probably
around 1996 and I had 18 programmers
that from on the internet I just put out
a call for people to do that and they
kept saying it was impossible to do it
and I thought well if I thought of it
it's
possible and you know it took years to
get that to work but uh I'm glad we
pursued it and and dena's Ruby and Dina
are there for you to talk to agent ruby.
net um and then it just went on for that
from there yeah and I've um I haven't uh
engaged with Sarah but um I have with
Dena and Ruby who also their humor the
sort of deflections and their answers
yeah sort of wonderful yeah
personalities that um you created but I
it also felt um and I think now with
later inventions like Siri increasingly
important that you've created these
characters that also um have a sense of
agency and um and not simply fulfilling
a request or command um or performing uh
in a certain way um but it also strikes
me that so many of the characters that
you've created over time have also
really sort of unflinchingly looked at
um you know certain problems that people
experience from depression to fears of
uh uh
surveillance um to domestic abuse I mean
you've really looked at a range of
important topics Within These works yeah
well anything that's on the internet
for a game especially for for
Ruby yeah um and for you in terms of
using AI today just what are some of the
kind of Curiosities you have or as well
as maybe trepidation or concerns about
the larger field that it's sort of
situated within in terms of AI art um
well I I kind of think it's like
Photoshop was yeah or like word the
program word was they said that once
word was created there would be no more
libraries and people wouldn't read and
they said you know the same with
Photoshop that no photographs would
exist but it's just something that will
take us to another level I think we're
getting Beyond AI now and I'm really
excited to see what happens next yeah
that's great um so tell us a bit about
also this anti-aging serum and how that
has extended from um I assume the work
you've been doing around DNA well it
really extended from Roberta you know
the first image of Roberta was that
construction chart where she she Drew on
her face what the advertiser said would
look attractive and uh it it seems we
have other thing things than that just
drawing on your face or buying makeup
that uh can give us a future in a
different way but I do think that the a
the anti- agent aging serum uh will will
extend life and as I say they don't it's
illegal in the United States but they're
using it in China which is where I had
it made and they're using it in other
parts of Europe and uh hopefully it will
not just extend our our age but make us
a little bit wiser with a better sense
of
humor and with some of the scientists
you've approached um in your more recent
work around um biotechnology bioprinting
including also now the anti-aging serum
um what are just some of you know is is
the concern around anti-aging what then
um seems to be predominant and that's
sort of the direction or were you
looking for people who are
specifically um focusing their research
on that for that kind of product yeah I
I I I looked um specifically on this but
I had just done a a project on uh water
pollution which we successfully were
able to decontaminate water one liter an
hour and I worked with a with a group
from Harvard and also a scientist from
uh Switzerland when I go to these places
they don't answer my emails but if I
have a scientist like Thomas Dr Huber uh
to go with me or to write in advance and
they take it seriously and certainly uh
George Church was one of the leading uh
Advocates of understanding te uh
possibilities and so he's somebody I
wanted to meet I did meet with several
times took three years to do it but I
eventually did we became friends and so
he and his lab uh the at the Weiss
Institute of Harvard were the people
that I was working with in in creating
these serums right and also the room8 uh
installation that you had shown before
which um I should note not only has uh
um uh Roberta britmore or no it has um
your name um as uh
sort of
accustom
uh antibody antibody yes um but also
another vial which you see through a
sort of laboratory door um an
installation that has a door and you
peer through it in the sort of glowing
blue um and uh it is a DNA um synthetic
DNA of your archive of not only the
research but believe your films are also
archived there yeah I have as much of my
life archived in this little bottle like
this that is practically invisible so
yeah but it's sort of Ian it was a high
coup for life for living but an amazing
idea also of a sort of radical
self-portrait um and also approach to
DNA yes um did you were you thinking
about DNA as a form of archive or did
you learn about that sort of through the
process of working with them
uh well DNA is our archive it's not just
our life it's the lives that have
happened before us in our whole whole
strain of of family history so it just
seemed appropriate to to do that yeah
and one of the things I've always
appreciated with Lynn is not only these
exhibitions which bring sort of uh
different trajectories of her work um
across mediums together um but also
you're really a sort of radical approach
to your own art iive and I'm thinking
back to um because there is currently a
show at the caner Arts Center they have
recently launched a wonderful um series
um in dialogue with Stanford libraries
of highlighting um in an archive room
right now it's Lyn hman Lon and also
Bernice Bing um but I'm thinking back to
when um Lyn's so Lyn's papers are placed
at Stanford as well as um her wonderful
uh curatorial project um which is key
part of the Artist Run space movement in
the 70s here in the Bay Area called The
Floating Museum which is also at
Stanford um but
in um sort of mid
2000s um Lynn began sort of working
closely with uh Stanford Humanities lab
on sort of
reconstituting an archive that could be
accessible through second life um and
this was something that my colleague at
us of Moma Rudolph freeling um uh showed
um called life squared at the time and
this was um still accessible then so
there was a physical archive including
the wonderful uh women art Revolution
that came out of years of footage um
that is at Stanford um but also just
these ideas of sort of accessibility and
um new ways of thinking of I think
Roberta was the custodian of this
project um too uh but just loving how
this idea of the archive continues to to
take new forms in your work well you
have to think that you know if you you
have over 4,000 pieces oh you can't put
all of them in your closet or under your
bed so so I had to invent a way to uh to
have the archive not only sustain itself
forever but be accessible in many ways
including online and Stanford arranged a
way to cross reference and transpose and
translate all of the work yes is so
amazing because often I mean it's it's
such a a Triumph to have an archive even
get into you know a research place like
um Stanford but for many people it's
sort of the boxes go in you don't know
who will access and when it may take
years to process and so um to me this
was one of the most heartening local
examples of um that engagement and also
then its really sort of productive way
that it could be in artwork that could
be then displayed and shared going I
mean every time I I have to uh I don't
have any closet space and another
shipment goes down
there um how when you think of Seduction
of a cyborg um which you chose for today
um what are just some of the key aspects
of that work that um continue do you
feel like to resonate with your work
well the reason I put that in was
because you know it was almost 30 just
28 years old and uh it kind of predicted
uh the importance of the internet at a
time that nobody really suspected that
would happen so
yeah yeah no I mean I think that the um
the seduction or can also say the sort
of addictive qualities of the internet
our lives on social media definitely um
yeah I think we are seduced by it and
spend much more time with it than we
should yeah um and also in a few of your
works over the years this this attention
to the eyes you know which is so sort of
our unique identity but also in the way
that um information it's not only our
our site but just that um it's now part
of the kind of data that gets collected
and even on my phone if I pull up and it
lets me log into my Kaiser app because
it does face recognition or um just
increasingly the use of sort of data
collection sort of loss of privacy where
people are more regularly giving up
these kinds of information about
themselves yeah that's really an
important point that uh I don't think
people understand how much of themselves
is available uh I did one one piece
about three years ago and all you did
was put your email in and walls were
filled with not just what you had for
lunch but what your mother your second
cousin had and where they lived and
private private uh um phone numbers so I
think it's really important to be aware
of uh the fact that privacy no longer
exists yeah and just um you know also if
we think of our um you know varying
degrees of relationship to AI how much
of that is also the sort of um we the
corporations like to talk about the sort
of transformative potential but it also
so much of it is really about sort of
using us in our data and getting us to
sort of use an exist existing model that
is owned by someone else yeah getting
our data and then selling it
yeah
yeah um what are some of the you know in
terms of these Technologies like the
anti-aging serum um some of the aspects
that you're maybe hopeful for and where
maybe there's also concerns about sort
of misuse or um do you feel that people
will lose for
example a sense of uh what what happens
when you Forstall
aging um you know I have someone I know
recently who said you know it's really a
privilege that we can age and especially
knowing people who have died young from
cancer among other things you know to be
in a society that's constantly telling
you not only to look younger but also
now that you could
forall something like this and it's I I
think that what we have to do is find a
way to uh have more have a deeper
understanding of the consequences of
these things that we're uh looking for
and uh there I think there's an article
on the on in the guardian today about
that and how it's mainly men who are
doing both both the research and the
buying that because they don't think
they're going to die or don't want
to wow um and do you have with this sort
of re recent work um with these serums
do you see the kind of laboratory format
that you're exploring with infinity
engine being yeah the infinity engine
you know the these things don't happen
quickly and the infinity engine took
over a decade and when I had it uh an
exhibition in basil of the whole thing
it was eight rooms you know eight on its
side is infinity and and so each room
had a different aspect of what uh
genetic engineering will do to and for
us yeah
what are some of I mean if you uh think
of um Thomas Huber but also George
Church um when you have identified a
scientist but also um made those in
connections you know what aspects of
working with someone from a really
different discipline um have you
appreciated the most or sort of learned
the most about I find that the most
radical scientists are really like
artists they they work like AR is they
they work with the unknown they don't
know what's going to happen and they
just push the edges and uh I you know
particularly with George Church who I
had such a hard time getting uh an
interview with they really appreciate
the dialogue of curiosity and
possibility and in in fact uh they said
that some of our conversations is what
what led the Weiss Institute into coming
up with the uh the ability to uh depin
uh corrupted water of of course I got to
get keep the artwork and they got the
patent that was the deal that's a great
collaboration um and uh do you feel in
terms of
um are there sort of other fields within
science that you are curious about or is
this sort of the biotechnology the kind
of well I think that this is I mean I
was a bio ology major yeah and uh I
think that these are are really issues
that are so relevant to our times and as
you know both humans and the planet
itself that uh I'm I'm deeply interested
in in the possibilities that uh that
that we can invent for a more Humane and
morally responsible future not just of
of uh for us but for the entire planet
and create a way to exist yeah and I
think also that the water is such a
powerful metaphor in your work across
several pieces but specifically also
sort of decontaminating being so
important when we're also thinking of
also kind of legacies of artists who are
looking at environmental concerns in
their in their artworks as well um but
to to be able to get to that moment
where we're seeing actual change is
exciting um both within the artwork but
then a sort of application in the field
yeah yes and changing all the
time
yeah should we ask um sure although I
don't um I well I can step off if uh to
bring a mic to someone um does anyone
have any
questions thank
you maybe not ah we got a qu I knew we
had one hello okay well it might be too
much to answer in the moment but I'm
curious if you could provide any insight
into how you do something like take an a
personal archive and put it into a vial
or if that's metaphorical I don't know
if I was hearing your description of
that project correctly but how do you
access the archive with the matter
that's in the
vial you don't okay so it's metaphorical
but but I mean I have six of them and
they're very well placed uh but they can
be uh
they uh the the reverse engineering can
happen so you can take them apart I mean
I was had to put it together molecule by
molecule if you'll believe it you know
reduce the archive U material down to
that fraction uh so that we we could
have it there and it and it will you you
can uh the people that have it can also
um de collect it and release it but not
not accessible for most people or most
most museums got it thank
you hi so my question is so it seems
like the pattern within all your work
especially even the de de pollution
Water Project it's just you have a
vision for it and you
just as far as I can tell just bring
people together to make it real is that
sound right where it's just like you
have a vision for the idea and you just
like put it out into the world and ask
for people to help you build the thing
that you're envisioning
so I think it's um I think the question
is about the the work um around water
and sort of De decontaminating um I
think you're asking about the process of
collaboration collaboration to find
people who can um maybe take it from
just also the gesture of the work to
actually it being something can happen
yeah it was important to me to have
these things really work not just have a
design concept cep or or a possibility
for the future and so I became friends
with these scientists and uh uh and
worked with them as I say you know
George church has written about how our
conversations uh allowed him to and his
team you know with with the Deep
pollution of water and uh some of the
aspects of of uh of antibodies which by
the way antibodies are the toxins of
culture and so we you know what
and what we create is a way to uh
mitigate that and and have a a healthy
future so um I I was just very lucky you
know I started uh with with one
scientist who was well respected and
that led me to others and that led me to
the conversations and many conversations
about uh possibilities you know what can
we do and and because uh I don't you
know I I ask questions that they don't
think about then then it it brings a
broader reach to looking for
Solutions um and I'm very grateful that
they accepted that after so much time I
think I think they're they're very
skeptical until they have the first
meeting and then uh then the meetings
are very easy to continue and even
online still uh to to just look at these
questions and see how we could find
unexpected solutions for the future and
Lynn I think you've also likened artists
to the sort of antibodies to sort of
toxic aspects of our culture yeah um
which is
wonderful um Rhonda do you have one
question and then I think we
may hen thank you so much I think your
work has inspired a lot of people in
this room at least me um my question is
so you've been making work over such a
long period of time and as you mentioned
some of the works didn't even get shown
for years or engaged with so how does it
feel if there's a work now that people
are are excited about that you made a
long time ago and knowing you put so
much of yourself into each thing how
what's that experience of kind of being
pulled back to that time of making that
work um just because your work isn't
appreciated shown wrote wrote written
about or sold particularly in the Bay
Area doesn't mean that you shouldn't do
it so I
you know it's really all about time and
and many museums and collectors look at
things that have been done long enough
ago that there's been a lot written
about it and it's validated rather than
something that's current so I feel
really lucky especially fortunate that
that Peter vable in the zkm museum did
my very first book uh 10 years ago uh
and and that that now I'm having
different kinds of opportunities that
that didn't have but you know if I had
had those opportunities earlier I don't
know that I would have done the work I
did I I did the work because I was
thrived by by it and that I couldn't
help it that it was um something I I I
felt compulsively important uh to spend
my time with and we all have that choice
you know we don't let a presumed failure
stop us from doing something that we
really believe in and just let you know
wait wait for the world to catch up and
I was lucky that I had that opportunity
I'll also just say my own sometimes
preference you know or thoughts on the
field is that you know there's just a
lot more support and it's understandable
for artists to make new work for New
Media artists work show their latest
work and that there's not always that
many occasions for me to see even um you
know historic examples of media art from
the Bay Area um and it's just something
that I wish we could continue to kind of
think about opportunities and obviously
the solo retrospective is one amazing
one but just moments where how can we
support artists revisiting or restaging
certain pieces or bringing work into
dialogue um totally understand the sort
of pressures of the new newness but I
just it's something I also just wish
more broadly that we could think about
um over time well I think that that's
what gray area is dedicated to and now
they do have U media media curators
which didn't exist uh a short time ago
so it's catching up yeah because of
events like
this I think we'll just take one more
question with WR that's such a Beau I
feel terrible asking a question and
extending what could have been such a
beautiful clothes but maybe in the
spirit of extending the and I'm going to
do it anyway but it's perhaps an
extension of the statement so your work
is always kind of winking back you know
at at at cult contemporary culture from
a bleeding edge if you will um at the
same time we kind of see Culture Rising
up and kind of meeting this wink and
incorporating it and absorbing it so I'm
thinking of you know the in the piece
that we watched here but also the
anti-aging serum which like in the
United States it it exists as this kind
of vacuum sealed entity because of legal
restrictions but in other places it's
already kind of being incorporated into
the body so how do you make that
distinction between the art workor and
this kind of rising Arc of history that
absorbs the the work as an everyday
culture and then is there a relationship
between that gesture and the way that
you think about your own archive like
when is a work living or when is a work
archived or is that not an interesting
thing to think about I I think it's both
you know the archived work is alive and
my my work in my uh closet will be
archived so I I think it's kind of again
like like an Infinity 8 you know that is
is that that just continues
on thank you
both thank you thank you
[Applause]
everyone e